---
layout: post
title: Nether Updatse out today on Java!
---

One does not simply walk into the Nether, but it seems that's what everyone is about to do anyway...<br>

Today we're releasing the full Nether Update in all its glory! Traverse through familiar, fiery wastes into new unexplored fungal forests, spooky valleys, and deltas brimming with basalt. Dig your way through these biomes and you might be able to find a new curious material, suspiciously titled "ancient debris". What will you make of it (it’s totally not Netherite)?<br>

Fight your way through hordes of Piglins… Or don't! They’re actually pretty cool if you bring some bling. And in case you find yourself in the wrong end of a bargain, make sure that you have access to a functional respawn anchor. I advise you to not use your regular bed unless you’re feeling a bit… “adventurous”.<br>

Enjoy the update!<br>

**Changelog:**<br>
\* Added Basalt Deltas biome to the Nether<br>
\* Added Crimson Forest biome to the Nether<br>
\* Added Hoglins<br>
\* Added Netherite<br>
\* Added Piglins<br>
\* Added ruined portals<br>
\* Added Soulsand Valley biome to the Nether<br>
\* Added Striders<br>
\* Added Warped Forest biome to the Nether<br>
\* Added Zoglins<br>
\* Added a new disableChat command line option – when used, receiving and sending online chat is disabled<br>
\* Added a new disableMultiplayer command line option – when used, the Multiplayer button is disabled<br>
\* Added bastion remnants<br>
\* Added new Game Mode Switcher debug menu<br>
\* Added new Nether blocks<br>
\* Added the Soul Speed enchantment<br>
\* Added the lodestone<br>
\* Added the respawn anchor that allows you to set your respawn point in the Nether. Use while holding glowstone to charge to a maximum of four charges – each respawn use one charge<br>
\* Added the target block<br>
\* Added crying obsidian. It's sad and cries purple energy<br>
\* Added basalt. Craft it 2x2 or use a stone cutter to create clean and shiny polished basalt!<br>
\* Added blackstone, along with its variants: regular, polished, and polished brick<br>
\* Added gilded blackstone – blackstone which has been imbued with gold and has a chance of dropping gold nuggets when broken<br>
\* Added chiseled Nether bricks, cracked Nether bricks, and quartz bricks<br>
\* Added two new non-flammable wood-like blocks: crimson stems and warped stems<br>
\* Added crimson and warped hyphae – all-sided "stem" blocks, including stripped variations<br>
\* Added new ground surface blocks: crimson nylium and warped nylium<br>
\* Added new vegetation: Nether sprouts, crimson roots, and warped roots<br>
\* Added two types of fungi: crimson and warped. Try using bone meal to grow them!<br>
\* Added warped wart blocks<br>
\* Added weeping vines that grow from the bottom of a block downwards<br>
\* Added twisting vines that grow upwards<br>
\* Added a new natural light source block: Shroomlights<br>
\* Added soul soil. Whenever fire burns on soul soil, it burns with a blue flame<br>
\* Added soul campfires. Warm your buns with the heat of one thousand souls!<br>
\* Added chain blocks<br>
\* Nether gold ore can now be found in the Nether – it drops a few gold nuggets and can be mined with any type of pickaxe<br>
\* Bone meal can now be used to grow kelp, weeping vines, and twisting vines<br>
\* Using bone meal on Netherrack can now spread nylium<br>
\* Nether vegetation blocks (sprouts, roots, vines, fungus, wart and wart blocks) are now compostable<br>
\* Nether sprouts can be harvested with shears<br>
\* Food can now be placed on unlit campfires<br>
\* You can now milk cows and Mooshrooms in creative mode<br>
\* You can now get stew from Mooshrooms in creative mode<br>
\* When using an empty bucket on water in creative mode, you now get a bucket of water. If you have a bucket of water in your inventory already, no additional water buckets will be added when you use your empty bucket on water<br>
\* Difficulty and game rules can now be changed from "Create World" screen<br>
\* "Singleplayer" button will jump directly to "Create World" screen if there are no worlds to select<br>
\* Temporarily removed structure settings from flat level preset strings (workaround: use import/export settings functionality)<br>
\- Removed Herobrine<br>

**GET THE RELEASE:**<br>

Cross-platform server jar:<br>
\* [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/a0d03225615ba897619220e256a266cb33a44b6b/server.jar)<br>

Report bugs here:<br>
\* [Minecraft issue tracker!](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)<br>
